Hello Expensify,

I saw your Site Reliability Engineer posting on LinkedIn and it caught my
attention because you asked candidates to send you an email like this one if
they like.

Since there's so much to talk about in my 40 years of work and play with
computers, I'm answering your questions briefly with links to the fully
expanded details.


## My responses to your questions

### _What's the URL of your website? If you don't have one, why not?_

The only URL I give out is
[github.com/rdeforest/resume](https://github.com/rdeforest/resume). I have two
vanity domains, `thatsnice.org` and `defore.st`. I don't host sites behind
them now because I don't yet have anything I want to broadcast that isn't
already on [`github`](https://github.com/rdeforest). In the past I did host
sites at these domains; it was all experimental and for my own amusement,
rather than for communicating with an anonymous audience.


### _What's your admin/coding history? When did you start, and what have you done between then and now?_

Legend has it that I first started programming before I was 10, but my own
memory of teaching myself programming only goes back to 1984. I taught myself
BASIC, Pascal, C, C++, LambdaMOO, Bash, Perl, Java, JavaScript, CoffeeScript,
DataFax Scripting Language.

Most of my jobs have been system-administration, with a few odd non-technical
jobs, one Windows 95 phone-support, and two straight-up
programming. My administrative duties started when I was in high school in 1990
and included an ISP, a bank, a startup, that same ISP, Disney, Fred Hutch
Cancer Research Center and finally Amazon.

I've overseen systems running DOS, Windows 3.1 through Win2k4, Novell NetWare,
GNU/Linux (multiple distros), and Solaris. The hosts I was responsible for
have been connected by all the popular hardware: CISCO, F5, Juniper, 3Com,
Livingston (before Lucent acquired them), plus the custom hardware/software
stack Amazon uses.


### _What do you want to do with the rest of your life, and how is Expensify a step toward your long-term goals? (We’re serious, we want to know! Share what you’re comfortable sharing, but we are a group of ambitious individuals building a community of people who want to achieve success in every aspect of our lives, and we encourage employees to figure out how they can use Expensify to realize their personal goals with the support of the company around them.)_

I want to level-up my career to positively influence others in my community
(programmers, sysadmins), even outside whatever company I work for.

Eventually I see myself leading research, giving presentations and writing
books. I want my career and recreational time to help shape my relationship
with humanity to better facilitate these kinds of technical and social
improvements. I want to teach and learn, demonstrate, try, fail, try again and
succeed. I want my contributions to increase the freedom and reach of all
people everywhere, and to help them do the same for each other and for future
generations.

Working at Expensify can help me with my long term vision because y'all are a
modern company using the current best tools (old or new) and because your
values, as I've seen them demonstrated in your job posting and in your
product, align well with mine. We value "the simplest thing that could
possibly work," we respect customers' time, differences and needs, and
positive social impact over profit. And you have a sense of humor!


### _How did you hear about us? A job posting? Chalk on a sidewalk? From a friend? Let us know where you saw this opening._

I saw your [job posting](https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/4076973728/) on
LinkedIn. As I mentioned above, it drew my eye because you said you will
respond to emails as opposed to resumes.

I was also impressed that, unlike every other job posting, you didn't list
specific tools you want your candidates to be well-versed in. I think you know
your ideal candidate can learn any new tool on the job faster than they can
demonstrate existing proficiency with it. Every job I've worked at has
required me to learn something specific to that job (UNISYS mainframe terminal
communications at the bank, DataFax at SCHARP, proprietary Amazon dev tools,
etc.). The way you wrote your job posting indicated to me that you think as I
do and that inspired me to write this huge application email.

Additionally, I signed up at `expensify.com` and am impressed both with the
product idea and the execution. It is almost the same as something I was
thinking of creating myself after Intuit sold `mint.com`. Not only is it close
to that, but it is also exactly something I've needed since I started working
at companies which reimbursed expenses.

You are a company I am very interested in working at because you are doing for
both employment candidates and customers the things that I want to do for
them.


