Hello Expensify,

I saw your posting on LinkedIn and it caught my attention because you asked
candidates to send you an email like this one if they like.

Since there's so much to talk about in my 40 years of work and play with
computers, I'm answering your questions briefly with links to the fully
expanded details.


## My responses to your questions

### _What's the URL of your website? If you don't have one, why not?_

The only URL I give out is
[github.com/rdeforest/resume](https://github.com/rdeforest/resume). I have two
vanity domains, `thatsnice.org` and `defore.st`, but I don't host sites behind
them because I don't yet have anything I want to broadcast that isn't already
on [`github`](https://github.com/rdeforest). In the past I did host sites at
these domains, but it was experimental and for my own amusement, rather than
for communicating with an anonymous audience.


### _What's your admin/coding history? When did you start, and what have you done between then and now?_

Legend has it that I first started programming before I was 10, but my own
memory of teaching myself programming only goes back to 1984. I
[learned](#learned) BASIC, Pascal, C, C++, LambdaMOO, Bash, Perl, Java,
JavaScript, CoffeeScript, DataFax Scripting Language. My first programming
[job](#job) was for my brother-in-law when I was in high-school.

Most of my jobs have been [system-administration](#sysadm-jobs), with a few
odd non-technical jobs, one [phone-support](#phone-support), and one
straight-up [programming](#programming-job). My administrative duties started
when I was in highschool in 1991 and included an ISP, a bank, a startup, that
same ISP, Disney, Fred Hutch Cancer Research Center and finally Amazon.

I've overseen systems running DOS, Windows 3.1 through Win2k4, Novell NetWare,
GNU/Linux (multiple distros), and Solaris. The hosts I was responsible for
have been connected by all the popular hardware: CISCO, F5, Juniper, 3Com,
Livingston (before Lucent acquired them), plus the custom hardware/software
stack Amazon uses. I had [multiple note-worthy
accomplishments](#accomplishments) in all these positions.


### _What do you want to do with the rest of your life, and how is Expensify a step toward your long-term goals? (We’re serious, we want to know! Share what you’re comfortable sharing, but we are a group of ambitious individuals building a community of people who want to achieve success in every aspect of our lives, and we encourage employees to figure out how they can use Expensify to realize their personal goals with the support of the company around them.)_

Briefly, I want to [level-up](#level-up) my career to positively influence
others in my community (programmers, sysadmins), even outside whatever company
I work for.

[Longest-term](#rest-of-life) I see myself researching, giving presentations
and writing books. I want my career and recreational time to help shape my
relationship with humanity to better facilitate these kinds of technical and
social improvements. I want to teach and learn, to research, to demonstrate,
to try, fail, try again and succeed. I want my contributions to increase the
freedom and reach of all people everywhere, and to help them do the same for
each other and for future generations.


### _How did you hear about us? A job posting? Chalk on a sidewalk? From a friend? Let us know where you saw this opening._

I saw your [job posting](https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/4076973728/) on
LinkedIn. As I mentioned above, it drew my eye because you said you will
respond to emails as opposed to resumes.

I was also impressed that, unlike every other job posting, you didn't list
specific tools you want your candidates to be well-versed in. I think you know
your ideal candidate can learn any new tool on the job faster than they can
demonstrate existing proficiency with it. Every job I've worked at has
required me to learn something specific to that job (UNISYS mainframe terminal
communications at the bank, DataFax at SCHARP, proprietary Amazon dev tools,
etc.). The way you wrote your job posting indicated to me that you think as I
do and that inspired me to write this huge application email.

Additionally, I signed up at `expensify.com` and am impressed both with the
product idea and the execution. It is almost the same as something I was
thinking of coming up with myself when Intuit sold `mint.com`. Not only is it
close to that, but it is also exactly something I've needed since I started
working at companies which reimbursed expenses.

So you are a company I am very interested in working at because you are
doing for both employment candidates and customers the things that I would
want to do for them too.


## Details

### <a name="learned"></a>About teaching myself programming languages

My very first experience learning to program was on a Commodore 64, with the
manual. After that my father obtained a PC XT which had Turbo Pascal on it. I
used that to implement the algorithms described in Scientific American's
"Computer Recreations" columns. My father introduced me to a FORTH
implementation he had built on a Z80 system.

In the late 80s my brother-in-law suggested porting my programs to C for
speed. I spent the day doing that, and appreciated C's more succinct syntax.

In my one semester in college I found MUDs and specifically MOOs (MUD Object
Oriented). I quickly taught myself the LambdaMOO embedded language, then
became an active developer in the ColdMUD project which was inspired by MOO
and CoolMUD.

In 1996 I started working at an ISP where shell and Perl scripting were
everything. I immersed myself in shell first, then ported all my shell
creations to Perl at the owner's recommendation. Perl was my favorite language
until I started working at Amazon in 2012. I appreciate its flexibility and
that it exposes its guts to programmers, for better or worse. I believe in
giving professionals sharp knives and trusting them not to cut themselves and
each other. There will be the odd injury, but trying to avoid that at the
language design level seems like a premature optimization to me.

In 2010, at [SCHARP](#sharp), I was responsible for software called DataFax
which had its own home-brewed embedded language. It had originally been
intended for validating numbers in forms it had processed but grew to offer
much more. See [the DataFax upgrade](#upgrade) for details of how deeply I got
to know that environment.

Around the time I started at Amazon in 2012 I also discovered CoffeeScript and
it completely took over Perl's place in my heart. Up until then I had avoided
Python because of its whitespace sensitivity, but CoffeeScript cured me of
that bias.

# garbage?

At Amazon the levels of leadership from warehouse picker to CEO are delineated
by reach and scope: self, team, organization, vertical, company, community,
country, planet. It's a little more complicated than that, of course, but
that's roughly how I was told to think about it. When I left I was at the team
level. My teammates and I were leading each other in working together more
effectively and helping each other learn. My next promotion would either have
been into management or a kind of Principle Engineer In Training position.



Since the first time I rode a three-speed bike, I've been fascinated with how
machines extend the capabilities of humans. The addition of gears to a bicycle
enables us both to go faster on flat surfaces and to climb steeper surfaces
than we could otherwise. When I was quite young I knew I wanted to do that
kind of thing for humanity: to create tools which extend our reach. Expensify
is a good example of the kind of thing I want to create, and in fact I had
already been thinking about building my own after Intuit sold Mint. Three of
my past jobs scratched elements of this itch incidentally, and I think working
at Expensify would both scratch that itch and put me in direct contact with
more people who have that same kind of optimism about tools. The difference I
see between me and most engineers like me is that I try to balance the
technical aspects with the human ones.

A good tool is like a good manager: it helps when it can and stays out of the
way when it can't. Designing that into tools takes a kind of respect for the
users that I don't see in many organizations. I mention this because your job
posting requesting emails instead of resumes demonstrates the same kind of
thinking that I have.


